# SP 800-171 Rev. 2 
# Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal Systems and Organizations
 
**Download**: [SP 800-171 Rev. 2](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-171r2.pdf)  
**Date Published**: February 2020  
**Supersedes**: SP 800-171 Rev. 1 (06/07/2018)  
**Planning Note (2/21/2020):** 

Documentation > Supplemental Material > **CUI SSP template**:

** There is no prescribed format or specified level of detail for system security plans. However, organizations ensure that the required information in [SP 800-171 Requirement] 3.12.4 is conveyed in those plans.


### Author(s)
Ron Ross (NIST), Victoria Pillitteri (NIST), Kelley Dempsey (NIST), Mark Riddle (NARA), Gary Guissanie (IDA)

>   **Abstract**  
    The protection of Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) resident in nonfederal systems and organizations is of paramount importance to federal agencies and can directly impact the ability of the federal government to successfully conduct its essential missions and functions. This publication provides agencies with recommended security requirements for protecting the confidentiality of CUI when the information is resident in nonfederal systems and organizations; when the nonfederal organization is not collecting or maintaining information on behalf of a federal agency or using or operating a system on behalf of an agency; and where there are no specific safeguarding requirements for protecting the confidentiality of CUI prescribed by the authorizing law, regulation, or governmentwide policy for the CUI category listed in the CUI Registry. The requirements apply to all components of nonfederal systems and organizations that process, store, and/or transmit CUI, or that provide protection for such components. The security requirements are intended for use by federal agencies in contractual vehicles or other agreements established between those agencies and nonfederal organizations.

>    **Keywords**  
    basic security requirement; contractor systems; Controlled Unclassified Information; CUI Registry; derived security requirement; Executive Order 13556; FIPS Publication 199; FIPS Publication 200; FISMA; NIST Special Publication 800-53; ronfederal organizations; nonfederal systems; security assessment; security control; security requirement

[source](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-171/rev-2/final)